It's time for our next data structure.
Hash tables.
Hash tables or hash maps?
Maps.
Unordered maps.
Dictionaries, objects.
There are many ways to call this data structure.
And different languages have different names for it and slight variations on the hash tables.
Objects, for example, in JavaScript, are a type of hash table.
The reason I'm starting the course with the raise in objects or hash tables is because these two are
the most common interview questions.
You're going to use them in any coding question.
Me personally, I have yet to be part of an interview that you didn't have to know these.
They are an absolute must.
Now, luckily for us, pretty much every language has a built in hash table.
Just like a race in Python.
They're called dictionaries.
JavaScript, as we said, are objects.
Java has maps and Ruby has hashes.
And hash tables are very important all across computer science.
You see them a lot in databases and caches, and they're extremely useful.
So what are they?
And also, you may be wondering, what does the name hash table mean?
Where did this name come from?
Well, let's look at an example.
Imagine you're going grocery shopping and you have an object here basket and you want to add grapes
as the property of the basket object.
Again, we're using JavaScript syntax, but this should look familiar to you.
So we want to set that basket.
Grapes is going to equal 10,000.
We're buying 10,000 grapes because you can never have too many grapes.
Now, first off, thinking about how we would store this with a race, it would be a little bit more
difficult, right?
In Intrade, we have a index that's numbered and a value.
With a hash table or an object, we get to set a key, which is grapes and a value.
So we get to set a key value pair.
So right away we see some benefits in here.
Now a way a hash table works is we have the key, which is grapes.
And this key is used as the index of where to find the value in memory.
Remember with the raise we had the index, which was the number, but with hash tables, we use grapes
as a way to find it in our memory shelf.
This is done this way with something called a hash function.
But for now, we'll just assume this is a black box.
We don't know what's going on here.
All that's going to happen is we're going to pass grapes into this black box.
This black box is going to do some magic.
And out of it comes a key into an index where we want to store this value.
So now our 1000 grapes can be stored in this memory address.
711.
And technically it actually stores both grapes the key and the value of 10,000.
Here, I've just simplified it to 10,000 just so it's a little bit cleaner.
But keep in mind that it's going to store both key and value, and I'll show you a diagram showing this
later on.
So this black box over here gets to decide where to put the data on our memory in our computers.
But you might be wondering, what is this thing and why does it get to decide where to put all this
information?
For that, I'll see you in the next video.
Bye bye.